Add Feature/Extension Flags page. (#2581)
knative/docs: docs/serving/feature-flags.md

---
title: "Feature/Extension Flags"
weight: 50
type: "docs"
---

Knative is deliberate about the concepts it incorporates into its API. The API aims to be portable and abstracts away the specificities of an implementation. That being said, the Knative users should be empowered to use the useful features provided by their platform of choice implementing the Knative API.

This document introduces two concepts:
* Feature: a way to stage the introduction of features to the Knative API.
* Extension: a way to extend Knative beyond the portable concepts of the Knative API.

## Control
Features and extensions are controlled by flags defined in the `config-features` ConfigMap in the `knative-serving` namespace.
Flags can have the following values:

> * Enabled: the feature is enabled 

Reviewer: <!--whitespace-bot-->
Remove trailing whitespace:
```suggestion
* Enabled: the feature is enabled
```

`kubernetes/podspec-dryrun` changes the behavior of the Kubernetes implementation of the Knative API, but it has nothing to do with the Knative API itself. In this case, `Enabled` means the feature will be enabled unconditionally, `Allowed` means that the feature will be enabled only when specified with an annotation and `Disabled` means that the feature cannot be used at all.

## Lifecyle
Features and extensions go through 3 similar phases (Alpha, Beta, GA) but with important differences.

Alpha means:
* Might be buggy. Enabling the feature may expose bugs.
* Support for feature may be dropped at any time without notice.
* The API may change in incompatible ways in a later software release without notice.
* Recommended for use only in short-lived testing clusters, due to increased risk of bugs and lack of long-term support.

Beta means:
* The feature is well tested. Enabling the feature is considered safe.

> * Support for the overall feature will not be dropped, though details may change.

Author: But then there is no real difference between Alpha & Beta.
BTW, that's the k8s model https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/feature-gates/

> * Support for the overall feature will not be dropped, though details may change.

Author: Also, it forces user to explicitly enable it.
For example, a feature where Enabled and Allowed have the same meaning, like `multi-container`:
* if it is `Disabled` in Alpha, a user has to enable it manually
* if it is `Allowed` in Alpha, a user could use the feature by accident without realizing it (by simply adding another container to their Ksvc spec).

It is safer this way.

> * Support for the overall feature will not be dropped, though details may change.

Reviewer 2: Oh I just mean that it's more like:

Alpha: The feature may be dropped without notice
Beta: The feature is committed to the same deprecation policy as fully released features.

The language "the overall feature will not be dropped" makes it sound like it can never ever be deprecated and all features live forever.

* The schema and/or semantics of objects may change in incompatible ways in a subsequent beta or stable release. When this happens, we will provide instructions for migrating to the next version. This may require deleting, editing, and re-creating API objects. The editing process may require some thought. This may require downtime for applications that rely on the feature.
* Recommended for only non-business-critical uses because of potential for incompatible changes in subsequent releases. If you have multiple clusters that can be upgraded independently, you may be able to relax this restriction.

General Availability (GA) means:
* Stable versions of features/extensions will appear in released software for many subsequent versions.

# Feature
A feature helps staging changes to the Knative API. Eventually, a feature will be fully part of the Knative API and won't be guarded by a flag.

## Alpha

> * Disabled by default.

Author: I guess, why not.

## Beta
* Enabled by default.

## GA
* The feature is always enabled; you cannot disable it.
* The corresponding feature flag is no longer needed.

# Extension

> An extension is not aiming to ever be included in the Knative API and will always be controlled by a flag and never enabled by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An extension may surface details of a specific Knative implementation or features of the underlying environment. It is never intended for inclusion in the core Knative API due to its lack of portability. Each extension will always be controlled by a flag and never enabled by default.
```
